# CS-250-Software_Development_Lifecycle_Final_Project

**Interpreting User Needs and how User Stories Help**
How do I interpret user needs and implement them into a program? How does creating “user stories” help with this?
  Empathy and translation should be the focus for interpreting user needs rather than looking at it as a list of requirements needed for a project. Sometimes developers miss what the users are thinking in terms of what their goals are and the frustrations they have as well as the needs that they have for an application. By identifying the underlying problem that the users have and trying to solve that for them we can better interpret what the user needs are to better implement features into a program. User Stories are the best way in helping with this process, as you use a format that can easily be read and understood by anyone. As a(n) <type of user>, I want to <perform some task>, So that I can <achieve some goal>. By creating User Stories with clearly written Value Statements, they serve as a way to communicate with the development team as well as the non-technical stakeholders. User Stories also provide a clear checklist of Acceptance Criteria that shows what must be met to complete a feature of the program so that we can define what is done within the project and move onto new features. User Stories help to also prevent feature creep by making sure every line of code serves the end user.

**Development Approach and Agile Processes for Future Work**
How do I approach developing programs? What Agile processes do I hope to incorporate into my future development work?
  My approach to developing a program is based on interactive refinement rather than building one massive system at once. Building smaller parts means I can test and improve upon the features within the program which reduces risk and allows me to learn from my failures. In future work, I plan to continue to work using Sprints from the Agile process which allows for frequent review, testing, and reassessment of priorities based on feedback. Daily stand-up meetings, sprint reviews, and retrospective are a few events to help with keeping the team communication strong and everyone up to date on where tasks stand as well as looking back on work that went well and did not go well, that way improvements can be made. Continuous Integration and Continuous Deployment (CI/CD) is a practice that ensures code is continuously tested and integrated to prevent issues from rising at the end of the project.

**Good Teamwork in Software Development**
What does it mean to be a good team member in software development?
  Being a good team member means to have an understanding that you must be adaptable, have strong communication and collaboration with your fellow team members, and also be able to develop code that is clean. Communicating with your team and being honest and transparent about updates on the project will no only allow others to know where certain tasks stand, but also if there are issues early on so that the team can help fix these issues before it derails the Sprint. Bugs will appear and changes to the project requirements can happen, and a strong team member will have a mindset that can adapt to the shifts easily and in a positive way, as well as be flexible and help with solutions to issues that may arise. Clean code is important as you need to be able to read and understand it and maintain the code. Scaling the code can sometimes be needed as well, so having clean code will help with being able to add new features without disturbing the existing code. Making sure to write meaningful variable names and helpful in text comments also helps especially for later on when other developers need to work on the code you wrote, so making it clean is also beneficial for future developers that will need to eventually fix or refine the code you create.
